>> Steve Kinney: And so there's a lot
of things for you to kinda think about.
Can you combine these two,
which approach is right for you?
And I think it matters, you can use both
in different parts of your application,
right?
You don't necessarily have to choose one.
In either of these, we use both
basic React component state as well
as the ability to put
stuff in either Redux, or
MobX, or
something along those lines, right?
You can put all of that in place.
Do you maybe wanna have
the ability to have actions and
reducers that modify MobX objects
instead of doing it by calling back and
forth?
You could totally do that as well, right?
You can mix it up with React hooks.
There's a whole bunch of really
interesting ways you can take these
different things in place, right?
Couldn't you make middleware that uses
like async/await to do stuff instead?
Maybe, yeah.
Could you have the ability to
roll back an API request, right?
Like in how you do stuff with epics,
right?
There's a bunch of interesting ways
that you can mix and match these ideas.
And some of them,
we could go into them here,
but some of them will be very unique
to what you need to do your app, right?
And so I think that between Redux and
some of the different ways of dealing with
asynchronous code,
I think Redux Observer was super cool.
We use MobX in smaller parts.
If I'm starting a prototype,
I'm probably doing it in MobX.
The reason that we chose Redux is
because we understood it at scale,
and making those changes are scary,
and I'm risk adverse, right?
So we went with the kinda path
that we felt more confident in.
We didn't wanna get to a point where we
messed up our dependency graph, right?
Have you go, hey Product,
we need a few sprints to undo
some poor choices that we made.
I knew the patterns with Redux really
well, and so despite the fact that we do
use MobX in places of our application,
and I'm a huge fan of it, right?
And we were very much on the cusp,
it was a debate.
But just basically safety in
shipping our product was part of it.
And that's not to say MobX isn't safe,
it was just that nobody had done a very
large application with it,
so we went with Redux.
But like I said, we still use MobX in
certain portions where doing that whole
flow doesn't make sense.
And the context API that
is in basic pure React
was only a month old when
we had to make the choice.
So it was one of those things where
we didn't know at the time, right?
I think the context API is also great,
but the time-space continuum
is also an issue that informs.
You're gonna make a choice, and maybe
some hot, new library comes out tomorrow.
I think that as long as you understand
some of the trade-offs on some of
the approaches for doing these things, you
can begin to mix and match some of them.
The kind of word of caution that I'll give
is, you know the kind of lay of the land,
you know some of the trade-offs.
When possible, giving yourself really good
abstractions, right, and giving it so
that you call this method that's
gonna say, add an item to the list.
You use that function, add an item to
the list, all over your code base.
If you need to change the fundamental
way that an item gets added to a list,
you change that one function, right?
The second you find yourself
repeating yourself and kind of doing
squirrelly things all over the code base,
it becomes a lot harder for you, right?
So if you give yourself just functions
that you call that do things with
the data, you can make these refactorings.
You can change your mind
a lot more easily, right?
But if you hard code a lot of the stuff
in, you're kinda stuck with it, right?
So the way that you think about these
things can greatly impact your ability to
change your mind later.
I think I mentioned this earlier, we
basically do all of our normalization in
an adapter layer as the API requests come
in, and we turn them on the way out.
We did that actually not cuz we're
smart about state management, we are.
We did it because the APIs
weren't solid yet, right?
And we knew they were
gonna change all the time.
And I wanted the actual
application to know nothing
about the data we got back from the API.
Cuz we were using brand
new back-end technologies.
We were switching from on-prem MySQL
databases to stuff like Dynamo.
And we knew that there were
gonna be different trade-offs,
you can't do pagination the same way.
So we had this pattern that
actually has helped us a lot.
APIs change,
we tweak one place about how we normalize
our data, everything just works.
We could switch to something totally
different tomorrow, and it would all.
I mean, it wouldn't be fine,
we'd have to do some amount of work.
But we would not have to rewrite the app,
right, and
that is,
I can't sell that one again, right?
So kind of understanding the concepts and
being able to kinda mix and
match them I think is
incredibly important.
All right, any questions?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: So about structuring the
data, you really stressed the importance
of normalizing when you're
talking about Redux.
Would you say in the MobX side it's
sort of completely unnecessary, or
would you, what do you think?
>> Steve Kinney: Depends, if you're cool
with the dependency graph, fine, right?
But in a relatively small application,
that's the problem with scale, right?
Relatively small application, no thing you
do is really gonna bite you in the butt.
But as it gets larger and larger,
if you're not thinking about it, right?
And so the bigger your team is, the
scarier those things get for me, right?
Having those guardrails allows me to
give juniors a lot of autonomy, right?
Versus, in a code review,
it's really tough, right?
You look at that code review, and
I've been the looks good to me
on a code review that bit us in
the butt three months later, right?
I have done it.
If you look at that code review, you look
at the changes, this seems fine, but
there's like cumulatively little things.
This is where MobX State Tree becomes
a thing that you can like, all right,
I want the safety of
an immutable state tree.
I want a lot of the good stuff that
MobX gives me, you can kind of mix and
match those things.
But yeah,
the reason we went with Redux is because
we knew we were really comfortable.
We had been using effectively Flux for
a really long time.
We had been using a lot of stuff,
so we knew it really well.
So you're still normalizing
your data to a sense.
You're getting stuff into the API.
That might not be how the MobX
class looks like, right?
So you're still gonna
pull stuff from the API,
you still might have to
transform it in some way.
And we even made a lot of
computed properties, right?
A lot of normalization is
the ability to derive state.
In Redux,
that might happen in mapStateToProps.
In MobX, a lot of the kind of
rehydrating information was happening
in those computed properties, right?
So kind of where you do it kinda
changes as well, if that makes sense.
>> Speaker 2: Yep, and
then one other that's kinda
going back to the basic React
state that we talked about.
So I know that you mentioned in
the past that your app has undo,
redo features, and that you use Redux,
and it's really easy to undo and redo.
But you also mentioned that you were
thinking about maybe using context API.
Wouldn't that make that difficult?
>> Steve Kinney: So actually,
I think we kind of missed it.
I'm actually gonna go, and let me see if I
can find the slide where we talk a little
bit about what undo,
redo looks like in Redux.
And what we're gonna find out is that
as long as you're kind of using,
particularly in an immutable
state tree kind of structure,
it's actually pretty
similar no matter what.
Just give me one second.
So the way that you might implement undo
and redo, and undo and redo is scary,
cuz what are you undoing and
redoing, right?
The way that you might implement undo and
redo, and you can do this in Redux, right?
Theoretically, we can talk about whether
you might even do it in MobX, right?
It's if you hold onto the past,
and you hold onto the future, and
then you just kind of move stuff up and
down a stack, right?
The one meme of the course,
right, is from Kylo Ren,
let the past die, kill it if you have to.
At this point,
we're gonna do the exact opposite.
We're gonna hold on to all
past versions of the state.
So one of the things that I said
was really great about Redux and
immutable state trees is the ability
to kind of serialize the entire state
of the world, right?
And having that and
being able to just completely replace
something is incredibly powerful.
So this is, again,
if we were using maybe a to-do list or
something along those lines.
Well, when we might have otherwise
just popped the item onto an array.
Basically we can keep an array of
all of the past states, right?
That object of state,
you pop it onto the past ones,
you can kinda take the kinda present and
be the what you return out right now.
And if they did undo, you can take
the current present becomes the future.
Time travel is hard, right?
Any time you have an action come into
your reducer, do the context API, right?
Context API, React nowadays has
a hook called useReducer as well, so
you can actually legitimately
do this the same way.
But any time you're calling the method,
if you give yourself a good method, you
can just, I'm gonna take the serialized
object that's the state of the world now.
I'm gonna put it on an array
of past states, and
I'm going to set the new state as it
should be, and maybe future as whatever.
Maybe it's an empty array.
Should they undo, right?
You take the current present, and
you put it on the future array.
You take the front of the past and
make it the current.
[LAUGH] And
then you make the second-to-most
recent past the most recent past.
You're basically moving along.
You could also do this with indexes.
You can just basically move an index
back on the array, or forward,
depending on how you structured it,
and play back and forth through it.
So it's really actually about how
you structure your data, again,
like most things, and you can store
all previous and past states.
You need to probably figure out when they.
I think the hard part of undo and redo,
and just to show you what redo looks like.
You're taking whatever is the most
recent future that was the present,
and putting it back, and
just moving everything where it was.
The trickiest part of
implementing undo and
redo is not the state management piece,
it's the UX piece.
What did they want to undo, right?
Anything, right?
How do they access it, right?
Depending on what you need to undo and
redo,
it becomes slightly tricky,
right, on a UX level.
On a state management level, you can just,
especially easy in Redux, a little bit
less easy using pure React because you
don't necessarily have
the reducer pattern.
But that context, when we looked at
it in the prequel to this course,
the React state course, right,
we were using useState.
But you could use a useReducer in there.
You could mix having reducers and
using the context API.
These are not mutually exclusive, right?
And arguably, you can implement your
own versions of any of these, right?
But yeah, having this thing where an
action comes in, we return a new state of
the world, allows us, gives us a hook to
keep track of the last state of the world.
And the state before that,
and we just swap them out.
It's actually shockingly simple, right?
And that's effectively,
we saw really briefly,
I showed you the timeline
in the Redux Dev Tools.
It's basically behind your back,
saving the previous versions and
letting you step back through it, right?
And so it's effectively
an implementation of that.
>> Steve Kinney: Anything else?
>> Steve Kinney: That's a good one.
[LAUGH]
>> Steve Kinney: Great,
thank you so much, and good luck.
>> [APPLAUSE]